In 2010, Google
published a paper outlining a system
that they had been working on.
This publication about a system called
Pregel, has been one of the most
influential publications on
large scale graph computing.
The Pregel system essentially implemented
the BSB model that we covered in
the last lecture.
To show how the Pregel
system is programmed,
we present the published code of Google's
most famous algorithm, the PageRank.
Recall that PageRank's task is
to compute note centrality.
The basic philosophy of PageRank is
that a note that is connected to an more
important note gains more importance.
In the filler on the right, B is a very
important node with a high page rank
because a lot of other nodes directly or
indirectly point to it.
So C being his direct neighbor
that receives an edge from B,
also has a high page rank.
All the C itself,
there's not have too many incident edges.
On the left side we have
Google's published C++ code
that implements PageRank method
on the Pregel infrastructure.
You don't have to know C++ to understand
the basic essence of the code.
We will explain the basic elements of
the Vertex program in the next few slides.
Remember from the last lecture
that the VSP technique considers
a vertex to be a process.
Every vertex implements
a method called compute.
This method, implements the logic of what
a vertex should do during the super steps.
The program starts by creating a special
kind of vertex called the PageRank vertex
for which this compute
method is specified.
You will notice that the compute
method starts by saying what happens
when the super step is one or more.
But what happens in super step zero?
Usually, superstep 0 is used for
initialization.
Every vertex, initialization
PageRank value to a same number
which is one divided by the total
number of vertices in the graph.
Computationally, a PageRank of a vertex is
a number calculated by adding two terms.
The first term, depends on the total
number of vertices in the graph, and
is therefore the same every time.
And the second term depends on the page
rank of the neighbors of the vertex.
How does the vertex
compute the second term?
It gets the PageRank values of
the neighbors in its messages,
and adds them up.
As we saw for SSSP,
after a vertex computes its value,
it goes to the propagate step and
sends a message to its outgoing edges.
For PageRank, the message it sends out
is just computed value divided
by the number of outgoing edges.
When this is done, the node halts for
the next superstep, and waits for
some other node to wake it up.
At this point, we have seen two
examples of graph analytic operations
executed on the BSB programming model.
Now, we'll look at the same problem
from a slightly different viewpoint.
GraphLab, originally a project from
Carnegie Mellon University, now turned
into a company called Dato, took a similar
yet different approach to the problem.
In GraphLab, any kind of data can be
associated with a vertex or an edge.
This information is stored in
what is called a data graph.
Let's look at the same
page like I already did.
The syntax is a bit different but
the logical blocks are identical.
These are the same blocks
that we highlighted before.
GraphLab breaks up these blocks into
three different user specified functions
called Gather, Apply,
Scatter, or GAS, for short.
Okay, so what's different?
Let's mention a few important differences.
First, let's consider gather.
Rather than adopting a message passing or
data flow model like Pregel,
GraphLab allows the user defined update
function complete freedom to read and
modify any of the data on
adjacent vertices edges.
In GraphLab, a receiving vertex has
access to the data on adjacent vertices
even if the adjacent vertices did
not schedule the current update.
In contrast, for Pregel the control
is with descending nodes.
An update can happen only when
a node sends out messages.
For some graph analytics operations
like a dynamic version of PageRank,
this is very important.
Further, if vertex can update
its value asynchronously.
That is, as soon as it receives
an update without having to wait for
all nodes like we do in VSP.
This often helps some intuitive algorithms
like page rank converge faster.
When the graph is large and
must be split across machines,
BSP cuts the graph along edges,
as we see on this slide.
So every cut edge results in
a machine to machine communication.
If we increase the number
of across machine edges,
we increase communication cost.
This has an interesting
practical consequence.
As we have mentioned,
many graph applications have communities.
And central nodes that have high degree.
Many young people today have
over 500 Facebook friends.
So when an analytical
operation like Page Rank,
that goes through multiple
iterations until convergence, for
these graphs, the communication
cost can become very high.
In the cluster graph shown here, every
color represents a different machine.
Let's look at that red vertex.
What would happen if we
split it like this instead?
The red node gets split.
And different vertices of different
machines work with their own copy
of the red vertex.
In the diagram,
the primary red vertex is marked zero and
copies are marked one through five.
Now the gather phase happens for
each copy.
Followed by a second operation from
the copies to the primary red vertex.
And this is followed by new user
defined operation called merge
that combines the partial results from
the copies to the primary vertex.
So for PageRank, the merge operation
boils down to computing the total
summation of the partial summation
of the edges computed at the copies.
Thus in this lesson,
we have seen two of the most influential
paradigms of large scale graph
computation when the number of nodes and
edges run into tens of millions and more.